---
title: Cliffe Castle, Keighley
layout: page
id: allerton
bgimage: /assets/images/cliffe_castle.jpg
image-title: A Sense Of Place, Cliffe Castle, Keighley
---
# Cliffe Castle, Keighley
5th May 2024

<blockquote><i class="fa-solid fa-quote-left" aria-hidden="true"></i>  I loved watching the way people used the space to find a place to look and listen. <i class="fa-solid fa-quote-right" aria-hidden="true"></i></blockquote>

Twenty three people assembled, in the dark at [Cliffe Castle Keighley](https://bradforddistrictparks.org/park/cliffe-castle-museum-park/) to welcome in the dawn this morning. 

The [Cliffe Castle Support Group](https://cliffecastlepark.org.uk/) were there to guide us in the short walk from the car park to the picnic spot that looks out over the Aire Valley, where I set up the recording/brodcasting equipment and we settle down in camping chairs, on benches, and around the picnic tables.

Once again this 'A Sense Of Place' event was planned to be part of <a href="https://soundtent.org/reveil.html">Reveille 2023</a>, an international broadcast of the Dawn Chorus from around the globe. 

Our [stream page](http://streams.soundtent.org/2024/streams/utc1_-75d8414a-8731-4934-b338-c0e63e9e4b70) has a recording of <a href="http://streams.soundtent.org/2024/streams/utc1_-75d8414a-8731-4934-b338-c0e63e9e4b70">the sounds we heard</a> as part of that event.

Once the sun had risen around 5:19am, hot drinks cake and donuts were served, and we chatted about the experience, and looked at some of the drawings that had been made.

We hung around until about 6am before heading home.

<blockquote><i class="fa-solid fa-quote-left" aria-hidden="true"></i> Great event. Thank you for organising it. <i class="fa-solid fa-quote-right" aria-hidden="true"></i></blockquote>

## Climate Impact

We have tried to make this a low-carbon event by design, targetting a local audience, for a local event.

In the end I think nearly everyone arrived by car, but my guess is that no-one really came from all that far away. I also travelled by car, bringing four people in total.


## Sound
<audio controls>
    <source src="https://media.githubusercontent.com/media/caprenter/asenseofplace/main/assets/audio/CliffeCastle_2024-05-05 04.55_clip.ogg" type="audio/ogg">
    <source src="https://media.githubusercontent.com/media/caprenter/asenseofplace/main/assets/audio/CliffeCastle_2024-05-05 04.55_clip.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
*Audio: A Sense of Place. Cliffe Castle, Keighley - 5th May 2024 04:55*

We began to record at 04:33, just before the official start of twighlight (04:39), as we arrived at the site. The official sunrise time was 05:19, and we recorded for about 20 minutes beyond that. The clip above is about 9 minutes long from 04:55. 

## Gallery
{% include gallery.html directory="cliffe_dawn2024" %}


<blockquote><i class="fa-solid fa-quote-left" aria-hidden="true"></i> I liked hearing the different birds wake up and join in as time went on. <i class="fa-solid fa-quote-right" aria-hidden="true"></i></blockquote>

## Bird list

We ran the recording of the event through the bird identification app [Merlin](https://merlin.allaboutbirds.org/) and it identified the following:

* Bullfinch
* Wood Pigeon
* Wren
* Crow
* Robin
* Chaffinch
